---
layout: post
title: Udacity 
---

{{ page.title }}
================

<p class="meta">26 Feb 2012 - New York     </p>

A little background, [Udacity](http://www.udacity.com) is an online institution which provides free, online computer science courses. 

There are two major drawbacks to traditional education. The first is the fixed pace at which the lectures run. If the lectures are too fast for you, you’re left behind. If the lectures are too slow for you, you’re bored and lose interest. If the lectures hit the sweet spot, then it works out very well for you. However, there is always at least a couple of students who fall in either of the two earlier camps.

The second drawback is that going to college depends on whether your parents can afford it and are willing to afford it. Otherwise you’re looking at several years of debt or the easier path of working and earning money instead of going to college and getting into debt.

Udacity is clearly solves the second drawback - it is free and accesible to anyone with access to an Internet enabled device. Udacity solves the first drawback with the focus on micro lectures and ungraded quizes at the end of every micro lecture.

Since the lectures are divided into several smaller lectures no longer than 5 minutes each and every one of these micro lectures have a quiz at the end, you can follow an approach similar to Test Drive Development - take the quiz first, if you can’t answer all the questions, watch the micro lecture and take the quiz again. Repeat until you finally can answer all the questions on the quiz.

This is how I approached the CS101 class at Udacity. Never having written a line of Python before, I thought it would be a good opportunity to learn some Python while also learning the finer nuances of building a web crawler. I started off with the quizzes which were all based on Python and since I have been programming for awhile, I found them fairly simple. So I did not have to sit through a single lecture and was done with the quizzes and homework in 20 minutes. In a traditional classroom, the same output would have included an additional hour of having to sit through the lectures.

I did take a look at some of the lectures afterwards out of curiosity and they’re actually very well structured. I think in about fifty years, online institutions will be the dominant institutions of education. 
